---
layout: page
title:  Entity Matching
description: Development of Machine Learning and Deep Learning Techniques for Entity Matching
img:
importance: 4
category: work
---


Understanding if entries in a dataset refer to the same real-world entity (i.e., entity matching -- EM) is a challenging task even for human experts. Our research in this area concerns the development of:

1. ML and DL based techinques for performing Explainable EM;
2. Automatic techniques for performing EM;
3. Usupervised evaluation of the EM.



#### Explainable Entity Matching
State-of-the-art approaches based on Machine Learning (ML) and Deep Learning (DL) models are highly accurate but  suffer from low interpretability. From the user's perspective, these models act as oracles. This is a critical problem in many operational scenarios where traceability, scrutiny, and users' confidence in the model are fundamental requirements as well as the model accuracy.


- **Landmark Explanation**, a generic and extensible framework that extends the capabilities of a post-hoc perturbation-based explainer over the EM scenario. Landmark Explanation generates perturbations that take advantage of the particular schemas of the EM datasets, thus generating explanations more accurate and more interesting for the users than the ones generated by competing approaches.
	- 	Andrea Baraldi, Francesco Del Buono, Matteo Paganelli, Francesco Guerra:
Landmark Explanation: An Explainer for Entity Matching Models. CIKM 2021: 4680-4684
	- 	Andrea Baraldi, Francesco Del Buono, Matteo Paganelli, Francesco Guerra:
Using Landmarks for Explaining Entity Matching Models. EDBT 2021: 451-456


#### Automatic techniques for EM
The research studies the application of automated machine learning approaches (AutoML) for addressing the problem of Entity Matching (EM). This would make the existing, highly effective,
Machine Learning (ML) and Deep Learning based approaches for EM usable also by non-expert users, who do not have the expertise to train and tune such complex systems. To address
this issue, we introduce a new component, the EM adapter, to be pipelined with standard AutoML systems, that preprocesses the EM datasets to make them usable by automated approaches.

- Matteo Paganelli, Francesco Del Buono, Marco Pevarello, Francesco Guerra, Maurizio Vincini:
Automated Machine Learning for Entity Matching Tasks. EDBT 2021: 325-330

#### Evaluating the EM process
